<h1 id="network-visualizations-and-omeka-eurocentrism-in-visualizations">Network Visualizations and Omeka: Eurocentrism in Visualizations</h1>
<p>We already dealt with Palladio <a href="Earth-Palladio.md">last week</a>. This week the tutorials focused on visualizing data and historical artefacts and sources. Maybe this is a good time then to discuss the Eurocentrism entangled in these tools. The problem with visualizing data is when we use datasets without critiquing them. Johanna Drucker suggests in her article <a href="http://www.digitalhumanities.org/dhq/vol/5/1/000091/000091.html">“Humanities Approaches to Graphical Display”</a> that all data is capta, or data that is taken as active and not objectively truthful. That is has a fluid, entangled history. Palladio is an amazing visualization tool. But we cannot do justice to the past by visualizing datasets without critiquing them. For instance, say we take census data from the 1871 Canadian census. We do all of our digital work and produce a CSV file to visualize this data. We are merely reproducing the structures of power from that census. We are not at all critiquing the way it is used or how it was created. Imagine we simply scrae and visualize data about race, gender, class, etc. We are not doing the history justice. We cannot become enamoured by these tools. We cannot allow aesthetics and hard technical work cloud our historical approach.</p>
<p>Omeka is another such example. Omeka is a content management system (CMS) for online exhibits. But it is based on a Euro-centric idea of collecting data and grouping it - all power is given to the creator. This might be fine depending on the content you are working with. But we cannot also reproduce these power structures online like we do in museums. As such, there is an alternative. <a href="http://mukurtu.org/about/">Mukurtu</a> is a CMS that empowers the people who contribute to it, giving them control over the submissions. It was developed to work with indigenous communities. Omeka, for instance, would not work well doign historical work with communities that have been grouped and managed by databases for centuries. Databases can reproduce that violence.</p>
